

Wired communications is a broad term that is used to describe any type of communication process that relies on the direct use of cables and wiring to transmit audio and visual data. A classic example of wired communications is the traditional home telephone that is connected to the local telephone switch via wires that are ran from the home to the switch. While wireless communication solutions have become more common in recent years, the use of wired services remains common and is not likely to disappear in the near future.

Local telephone networks often form the basis for wired communications that are used by both residential and business customers in the area. Most of the networks today rely on the use of fiber-optic communication technology as a means of providing clear signaling for both inbound and outbound transmissions. Fiber optics are capable of accommodating far more signals than the older copper wiring used in generations past, while still maintaining the integrity of the signal over longer distances.
Ad

Internet access from desktop computer systems is also a common example of modern wired communications. In fact, telephone service providers often utilize the same wiring to provide both high speed Internet solutions and basic telephone services to residential and business customers. Depending on the nature of the connection, this may require using wiring and cables that have a higher capacity than standard wires. Some system designs need nothing more than the addition of filtering devices that effectively split the signal to allow a single outlet to provide connectivity to both the audio phone network and the Internet.

Cable television is also classified as wired communications. Cable is run into each home and connected to one or more television sets. The same cable is connected with the cable network, making it possible to activate the connection and allow both audio and visual transmissions to be received. This is in contrast to traditional broadcasts that rely on over the air transmissions that must be picked up by a receiver and converted into sound and images that the reception device can process.

In general, wired communications are considered to be the most stable of all types of communications services. They are relatively impervious to adverse weather conditions when compared to wireless solutions. With some forms of wired services, the strength and speed of the transmission is superior to other solutions, such as satellite or microwave transmissions. These characteristics have allowed wired communications to remain popular, even as wireless solutions have continued to advance.

